- Before we start diving into installation steps
and our first lend application,
we need to set up our AWS development user.
So go ahead and go to the AWS console
console.aws.amazon.com and either sign in or sign up,
if you don't have an account.
This is going to require entering your credit card details,
but don't worry.
You can use the free tier for everything we are doing
in this course, so not going to need to pay anything.
Once you have your root login details,
we need to create a development user.
It is always a good practice to separate development users
from the root user, to make programmatic requests
to the AWS.
Using the root user gives full access
to all your resources for AWS services,
including your billing information.
And moreover, you cannot reduce permissions associated
with your AWS account user access key.
You should guard your root user the same way you guard
your credit card number in secret.
You have already seen in the AWS sign in console,
there are two types of users.
Root user, which is your account user, and IAM user.
IAM is short for Identity and Access Management,
and is exactly what we need to create our development user.
With IAM we can create users, user groups and roles.
Each IAM identity can be associated with one
or more policies.
Policies determine what actions a user, role or a member
of user group can perform, on which AWS resources,
and under what conditions.
An IAM user is an entity in IAM that should map
to an actual human user.
Name and password are used to log in
to AWS management console.
And up to two access keys can be used with API or CLI
to make programmatic requests to AWS services.
Often you will have multiple IAM users
that need the same IAM permissions.
To make this easier, you can create IAM group.
For our development user, we need to create
an administrator user and group.
So search for IAM or just use slash IAM.
In the navigation panel, choose users, and choose add user.
Type in administrator and select both programmatic access
and AWS management console access.
For password, you can either use autogenerate it,
which will be presented at the end,
or type a custom password.
Also you can unselect checkbox, require password reset.
Next, we need to create the group.
You can name it administrators.
Select administrator access policy,
and click on create group.
You can skip tags and go straight to the review.
If everything is fine, we can click on create user.
And now we can see our development user has been created,
but don't go away yet, copy the following three things,
console URL, access key, and a secret key.
Click the show link to show it.
The last two are secure, so put them
in your password manager together with the console URL.
If you already clicked away,
unfortunately you cannot retrieve the secret anymore.
Instead you will need to create a new one.
You can do that by opening administrator user,
navigate to security credentials,
and click create new access key.
The access key ID and the secret are used
to make programmatic calls to AWS from CLI, SDK
or IntelliJ, which we'll go to in a little while.